>> Brian Holt: So
what this needs to do is,
this is going to be a component, right?
It's gonna be a function that
returns some sort of markup.
It's gonna be a render function for
whatever this component is.
So what I wanna do is, I wanna return
a div with an h1 inside of it that says,
adopt me, right?
It's gonna be our branding at the top.
So what I wanna do is, I want to
return React.createElement.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
I'm gonna put a div,
cuz that's what I want to output to
the DOM is I want a div tag, right?
I don't want it to have any attributes.
If I wanted it to have an ID, or a style
attribute, or any of those things that
goes on a div tag, I would put
that inside of that object there.
Okay, and
then I'm gonna give it children, right?
Children items are gonna be
rendered out to the DOM, right?
So I'm gonna say another,
we'll just put this on multiple lines so
it's a little bit easier to see.
Indent that a little bit.
Then here,
I'm gonna say another React.createElement.
I'm gonna make an h1 here, okay?
Again, no DOM attributes here,
and then here I'm gonna have,
Adopt Me!,or whatever you chose
to call your adoption app, okay?
>> Brian Holt: Let's save that.
So congratulations,
you've made your first React component.
Fundamentally, this is what React is.
It's just making a bunch
of components like these.
And now I have this reusable
component called App,
and I could use this as
many times as I wanted to.
That's kinda the magic here.
So down after that,
now we have this component.
We have to render it out.
Yeah?
>> off screen female: Sorry,
I might have missed this.
What do the angle brackets do,
the curly brackets?
>> Brian Holt: So
this is where the attributes would go.
It's just an empty object.
You also could put null here,
and that would work as well.
But if I wanted to have an ID on this div,
I would say .
And this would actually put
an ID tag on it, right?
Does that make sense?
Well, we'll go over it some more as well.
But that's a good question, thank you.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now we have this component, but
we need to do something with it, right?
We actually want to
render this into the DOM.
So what I'm gonna say is ReactDOM,
right, so I have this ReactDOM thing.
And I'm gonna say render, okay?
And now I want to render
the application into it.
So what I'm gonna say is
React.createElement again,
and I'm gonna give it App.
So notice these ones are strings, right?
Because I literally want a div tag, right?
It's literally the div tag
being output to the DOM.
And the reason why they do that is
you can have custom elements in here.
So I could have x-custom-element in here,
if you're gonna do Web
components kinda stuff, right?
But I just want a div, whereas this
is actually the App thing here.
So createElement can handle both strings,
cuz that's gonna be a literal div tag.
Or it can handle React components.
Or what they're called is,
composite components,
which are components that you create.
Okay, does that make sense?
Now, here you can put empty object and
null, right?
Cuz it's not gonna have any children,
you don't actually have to do this.
You can actually just leave it as App,
because the other two ones are optional,
okay?
Now I need to tell it where to put it.
So I'm gonna to say
document.getElementById, root.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
I'm making App, an instance of App.
And I'm rendering that to root.
And root is there.
>> Brian Holt: There, [LAUGH] all right?
So it's gonna to take this App, and
it's going to render it up there.
So hopefully, you can kinda see how
those two kinda connect to each other.
Now let's talk about App for
just a second.
The way I like to think about this is,
App, we've created a new class, right,
if you're coming from a Java background or
something like that.
So App is a new class,
and Reach.createElement creates
an instance of that class.
If you're coming from a backend
perspective, usually that makes sense.
If you're coming from
a frontend perspective,
that can be a little
computer science-y nonsense.
So a way I like to thing about is, when we
create App, we create a new rubber stamp.
I haven't actually stamped anything yet.
So having a stamp without ever stamping
anything is not super useful, right?
You actually have to stamp something.
So here, I've created a new kind of stamp.
And here, I'm actually kinda,
I'm using the stamp.
Right, I'm stamping it on something.
But what's cool about that rubber
stamp is it's reusable, right?
I don't just stamp it once and
it evaporates.
I mean that would be cool, but
I don't know of anything like that.
But I can actually stamp
that multiple times.
So that's what's compelling about React,
is these components become reusable.
I could have multiple Apps.
Usually, you'll have one App, right?
But I could have multiple title tags or
whatever we wanna make, or so.
Multiple pets, right,
cuz we're gonna make a pet adoption app.
So we can make a pet component and
stamp that multiple times.
Does that make sense,
the difference between making a new
class versus having an instance of it?
Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So
now if you save this, and go back and
refresh your page,
>> Brian Holt: You
should see something that
says Adopt Me up here.
>> Brian Holt: So congratulations, now
you've made your first React application.